
1) what editor do you use?  (hint: a wrong answer here will heavily
	influence the interview...  what is on ALL Unix systems? ;)
    vi

2) what shell do you use?   (hint: a wrong answer here will affect your chances)
    sh, ksh or bash

3) what is the best shell for root?
    sh

4) why is that the best shell for root?
    sh is always available

5) list the operating systems you are familiar with and the versions.
    AIX, HP-UX, Solaris, Linux

6) how do you backup your system?
    ufsdump

7) what commercial tools have you used for backup and archive?
    ???

8) what UID does root have across an NFS mount by default?
    ???

9) what file contains the mounted file systems in Solaris?
    /etc/vfstab

10) what file contains the mounted file systems in HP-UX?
    ???

11) what command identifies the NIS server you are bound to?
    ???

12) what is the name of the administrative tool for Sun?
    admintool
13) what is the name of the administrative tool for HP?
    ???
14) what is the name of the administrative tool for IBM?
    ???

15) if you are going to modify CDE files, which directory should you edit: 
	/usr/dt...  or /etc/dt...  ?
    ???

16) what differs between the NIS entry in the /etc/passwd file between HP and Sun?

17) in Solaris 2.5 what is the name of the file with the NFS exported files?
18) in Solaris 2.6 what is the name of the file with the NFS exported files?

19) identify some differences btwn CDE in Solaris 2.6 and Solaris 2.7?

20) How can you tell what is attached to the SCSI chain on a Sun system?
21) How can you tell what is attached to the SCSI chain on an HP system?

22) What command will tell you have much memory a system has in Solaris?
    prtconf
23) What command will tell you have much memory a system has in HP-UX?

24) Where are system messages logged in Solaris?
    /var/admin/messages
25) Where are system messages logged in HP-UX?

26) How would you "break" an NFS mount on a system that has users on it?

27) Explain how you could stop and start a process without rebooting?
    /etc/init.d/<process> start
    /etc/init.d/<process> stop

28) What command will tell you how long a system has been running?
    uptime

29) What is LVM? Logical Volume Manager
30) what is an HFS?
31) what is fsck? checks and repairs file systems
32) what is Jxfs or Vxfs?

33) how do you get a Sun system to single user mode?  
    init s
    shutdown s

34) how do you get an HP system to single user mode?

35) What files control basic hostname and network information on a Sun?  (hint: 3)
    /etc/inet/hosts
    /etc/nodename
    /etc/hostname.<interface>
36) What files control basic hostname and network information on an HP?  (hint: 2)

37) What command will provide status of your filesystems on a Sun?
    df ???
38) What command will provide status of your filesystems on a HP?
39) What command will provide status of your filesystems on a Linux system?

40) What file do you edit to permit non-console login of root on a Solaris system?
    /etc/default/logon        (CONSOLE=/dev/console to only allow console logons)
41) What file (with path) contains the information that appears when you
      right click on the background of a CDE login?
42) What command, with path, launches OpenWindows on a SunOs 4.1.3 system?
43) What command provides information on the health and performance of NFS?
44) What command provides information on your network connection?

45) What are some of the tags in HTML that do not require a closing tag?  

46) What command can you use to find the path to an application?
    which

47) What option can you use with FTP to automatically transfer using wildcards?
    prompt

48) What character(s) show up in an ascii file created in MSDos or Windows
    when FTP'd in Binary mode?
    ^M (new line)

49) What does the ioscan command do?

50) What does the lanscan command do?

51) What command in Solaris shows disk partitions?

52) What are the tar commands to display the contents of an archive?
    tar -tvf <file>

53) What directory are programs like perl and netscape installed in?
    /usr

54) What is the recommended ratio of swap to memory for X-windows?

55) What command tells you who is logged into a file system?

56) What is the command to shutdown and halt a Sun system?
    shutdown
57) What is the command to shutdown and halt an HP system?

58) How do you mount a filesystem?
    mount -F ufs -o nolargefiles,noatime /dev/dsk/c0t2d0s4 /usr2

59) What command can you use to identify a hostname or ip address?
    ping localhost

60) What character is used to launch an application and run it in the background?
    &

61) What command lists the current running jobs?
    ???

62) How do you kill a running job?
    kill

63) Where are startup scripts for an HP-UX 10.20 system?
64) Where are startup scripts for a Solaris 2.6 system?
    /etc/rc0.d
    /etc/rc1.d
    ...

65) What command is used to display NIS host information for an IP address?

66) How do you list the memory shared segments used:
    - to list them:     ipcs
    - to remove them:   ipcrm

-----------------

1. explain basic boot process of unix
2. explain fsck command
3. how to recover root filesystem
4. some stuff on vi editor
5. some usage of ps command
6. how you can check patch level of unix( like in solaris showrev -p
   command , in AIX oslevel -r
7. Some time they will ask you wrong question!!! you should reply with
   details why question which they ask is wrong {by techincally}
