
Weakness:
    - I am sometimes too direct. Sometimes it would be better to be a bit
      more politically im my aproach.
    - I don't like office politics. But politics is part of the job and
      cannot be avoided.

Strength:
    - Like working hard.
    - I like learning new things.

Biggest mistake:
    - Run a process on the production instead of the development server.
    - Used a new version of software too early (e.g. 64 bit Oracle at
      boo.com on a new Solaris version). We had to abandone it due to
      performance issues that we could not solve and go back to 32 bit. I
      have learned my lesson and am more conservative in adopting new
      versions. I only use them after an intensive test and try to avoid 2
      changes at the same time (Oracle version and OS version).
      This could have proved much more serious in a different environment,
      like a Bank.
      There was too much the feeling "we can do it" at dotcom companies.

Biggest success:
    - Comming to work in the UK.

    - Titels: 
        Successful project where I was involved from start to finish.
        Deleopement until handover. Small team, which gave everybody a lot
        of involvement. Working on a small team gives you much more the
        feeling of being responsible for the success or failure of the
        project. There was also direct feedback from the customer to us,
        something what you usually don't have in big projects.

    - Boo + Nextcard: 
        Involvement in the launch of a business. Building a new
        company or business from scratch. Being involved in a very
        ambicious project and having the excitement of the launch of the
        website was something special.

    - Coutts Bank:
        Successfull migration of the Coutts (Natwest) systems to the Royal
        Bank of Scottland system. This was at the time the biggest IT
        project in Europe and we delivered it successfull in time.

    From subjective personal feeling, the smaller projects feel more
    successfull. But when I try to distance myself a bit, probably Coutts
    was more successfull. Because it was not only successfull from a
    technological point of view, but also from a business point.

    The project based developments have more of an impact than ongoing
    developments as for example the development of GNI:rFrame at GNI.

